
GIT:

Git is a popular open source code management tool that provides comprehensiv features and wide range of applications in software industry.

SORCE CODE MANAGEMENT TOOL (SCM)
To manage source code tools are required.
This is also used to collaborate source code to central repository.
This is also called as Version Control System.
Its also helps to store previous versions whenever there is required.
It also helps that to review the code before moving to the mainstream.
Its also helps to finding who made the changes and bugs fixing.


GIT BASH:
Git bash is a command prompt where it is used to run git commands.

WORKING AREA:
It is a virtual folder which is used to store files and folders in current working directiry.


STAGING AREA:
It is a virtual folder which is used to store folders and files that has to be committed.


COMMIT:

Commit is a process in which is used to files and folders in staging area 

git clone ..> TO clone the remote repository.
git add   ..> to move working to staging
git commit .> to move staging to local repository
git commit -a -m "message" ..> to add and commit
git config --globaluser.name
git config --global user.email
git push origin main..> to push the commits fro local to remote repository.
git log   ..> to shows the commits.
git init   ..> to create a repository.
git pull..> to pull the commits from  new remote commits to local commits.
git fetch ..> to downloads new remote commits to local repository.
git merge ..> to merge the commits.
git branch <name> ..> to create a branch.
git branch ..> to list branches.
git checkout <branch name>  ..> to change branch














Process:

Working area ....(Git add)...>Staging area ...(GIT COMMIT)....>LOCAL repository.....(GIT PUSH)...>REMOTE repository


GIT RESET:

Git reset is used to remove commits from the history.
Git reset is used for only local commits.


There are 3 types of reset are present:
1) SOFT RESET ...> This is used to make the changes in working area.
2) MIXED RESET...>This is used to make the changes in staging area.
3)HARD RESET  ..> permanently discard the changes.


GIT REVERT:
 Git revert is retain the commits and discard only by creating new commit.
 Git revert is used for local and remote commits.



 GIT FETCH:

 Git fetch is used to downloads new remote commits to local repository.

 GIT PULL:

 Git pull is used to download new remote commits and performs merging.


 CHERRY PICK :

 Cherry pick is used to merge or integration of special commits .


 BARE REPOSITORY:

 It is read only repository which is also used as a setup of  git remote server .


 GIT BLAME :
 Git blame is used to present the commits in line-wise.











